### v1.0.4

* before updating we need to init the submodule (#37).

* Add GitHub Actions CI (@tmcgilchrist #42 #44).

* Various fixes for OCaml cucumber (@tmcgilchrist #41).

* Improve odoc documentation and add an example.

* Update base to v0.15.1 updating OCaml lower bound to 4.10.0.

* Update README with a working example.

* Fixup linking against libgherkin.

* Adapt to the interface changes when updating to gherkin-c v23.

* Move git submodule to https://github.com/cucumber/gherkin monorepo.

* Fixup cmdliner deprecations and update dune.

* Updated README to read a bit better.

* Updated Readme to reflect the new build steps.

* Removed unnecessary submodule.

* Updated dune project information to get things ready for release.

* Updated dune files to use autogenerated opam.

* Updated test make file to work with new dune build stucture.

* Updated files to work with Dune's foreign lib interface.

* Added gherkin-c READ ONLY as a submodule.

* Updated based on rebase from master.

* Added dialect example in the README.

* Moved initialization of result code.

* Added whitespace for readability.

* Added the Dialect module to allow compile time checking of supported dialects of Cucumber

* Created a means for indicating feature file dialect.

* Removed unneeded flag in dune. * Removed unneeded flag in dune * Added freeing before caml_failwith just to ensure that everything is cleaned up before going back to OCaml runtime.

* Refactored long code block into function in gherkin_intf.c. * Refactored long code block into function in gherkin_intf.c * Fixed small memory leak due to TokenScanner not being deleted after it is done being used

* Added const qualifier to sFileName to fix #31.

### v1.0.3

* Updated the underlying Gherkin C parser to version 7.0.4
* Added a note to the README to indicate the version of Gherkin C parser that is supported


### v1.0.2

* Bumped Janestreet's Base to 0.13.0
* Fixed segfault when there was a parser error in the C Gerkin parser
* Updated to use Re 1.9.0
 
### v1.0.1

* Bumped version of Janestreet's Base
* Updated everything to use Dune rather than Jbuilder.

### v1.0.0

This marks the first release of Cucumber.ml. This requires the use of gherkin-c as a shared object in your OS. You will need to follow your OS's instructions for that.

Features include:
* Matching stepdefs to steps in a feature file
* Tags are supported except the comma as 'or'
* Multiple feature files can be run from the command line
* State passing between step definitions are handled by the runtime system rather than the user managing it
* The world type is polymorphic
* Before/After steps are supported